README.md, before:

# T1A3 Terminal Application:  Dancing Diary

## Overview & Purpose
**Dancing Diary** is a terminal application to assist dance teachers by storing their students' contact information, creating lesson plans and keep track of students’ progress through the syllabus.

## Source Code Repository

The source code for this project is available on Github in the following repository:

[dancing-diary-terminal-app](https://github.com/jeskaj/dancing-diary-terminal-app)

## Style Guide

Identify any code style guide or styling conventions that the application will adhere to.

Reference the chosen style guide appropriately.

PEP8

numpy

## Features

Develop a list of features that will be included in the application. It must include:

- at least THREE features
- describe each feature, providing a walkthrough of the logic of the application.

Note: Ensure that your features above allow you to demonstrate your understanding of the following language elements and concepts:

- use of variables and the concept of variable scope
- loops and conditional control structures
- error handling

### Dance Syllabus
- Dance styles to be taught
- Steps in each dance, grouped into 3 levels

### Students
- Create new student and store:
    - Name, Email, Mobile
    - Dances student is learning
        - Steps within each dance they have learnt & whether they are competent in that step yet or not
        - Level of student within each dance (student cannot progress to next level until competent in all steps from previous level)
- View student information
- Update student information

### Lessons
- Create lesson plan to store:
    - Student
    - Date & time of lesson (checks no lesson already scheduled for chosen date/time)
    - Dance styles/steps to be taught in lesson (level 2 & 3 steps can only be added if student is competent in all lower-level steps in chosen style)
- Update lesson to add notes about student progress
- Update student competency in steps taught after completion of lesson
- View individual lesson information
- View list of upcoming lessons scheduled

## Implementation Plan

Develop an implementation plan which:
- outlines how each feature will be implemented and a checklist of tasks for each feature
- prioritise the implementation of different features, or checklist items within a feature
- provide a deadline, duration or other time indicator for each feature or checklist/checklist-item

Utilise a suitable project management platform to track this implementation plan.

Provide screenshots/images and/or a reference to an accessible project management platform used to track this implementation plan. 

> Your checklists for each feature should have at least 5 items.

-------------------------
The implementation plan for this project was created using [Trello](https://trello.com/) and can be access via the following link:

INSERT LINK TO BOARD - check access

https://trello.com/b/bFwCFIW8/terminal-app-dancing-diary

Initial stages:

![initial planning - Sunday](docs/trello1-sun.png)

## Installation & Manual

Design help documentation which includes a set of instructions which accurately describe how to use and install the application.

You must include:
- steps to install the application
- any dependencies required by the application to operate
- any system/hardware requirements
- how to use any command line arguments made for the application

### Dependendcies

Mention all imported packages and modules

### Installation Instructions

### Application Manual

INCLUDE LINK TO MANUAL CREATED BY PYDOCS

## References

Provide full attribution to referenced sources (where applicable).

PEP8

numpy

Commit message:

Defined basics of Student class, wrote function to add single student and store details in .json file, wrote function to view raw student data as stored in .json file, started working on improving add student function to add subsquent new students to existing .json data rather than overwriting - unfinished.

README.md, after:

# T1A3 Terminal Application:  Dancing Diary

## Overview & Purpose
**Dancing Diary** is a terminal application to assist dance teachers by storing their students' contact information, creating lesson plans and keep track of students’ progress through the syllabus.

## Source Code Repository

The source code for this project is available on Github in the following repository:

[dancing-diary-terminal-app](https://github.com/jeskaj/dancing-diary-terminal-app)

## Style Guide

**ASSIGNMENT REQUIREMENTS**
- Identify any code style guide or styling conventions that the application will adhere to.
- Reference the chosen style guide appropriately.

**CHECK & UPDATE THIS - TAKEN DIRECTLY FROM EXAMPLE PROJECT:**
- 4 spaces per indentation level
- Maximum line length is 79 characters
- Imports on separate lines
- Using single-quoted strings consistently, except when an apostrophe appears in the string, in which case double-quotes were used to avoid backslashes, and hence improve readability
- Comments in complete sentences and the first word is capitalised. Also inline comments were avoided
- Function names are in lower case and words are separated by underscores to improve readability.

**MY TEXT**


PEP8
- Blank lines:
  - Surround top-level function and class definitions with two blank lines.
  - Method definitions inside a class are surrounded by a single blank line.
  - Extra blank lines may be used (sparingly) to separate groups of related functions. Blank lines may be omitted between a bunch of related one-liners (e.g. a set of dummy implementations).
  - Use blank lines in functions, sparingly, to indicate logical sections.

numpy

## Features

Develop a list of features that will be included in the application. It must include:

- at least THREE features
- describe each feature, providing a walkthrough of the logic of the application.

Note: Ensure that your features above allow you to demonstrate your understanding of the following language elements and concepts:

- use of variables and the concept of variable scope
- loops and conditional control structures
- error handling

### Dance Syllabus
- Dance styles to be taught
- Steps in each dance, grouped into 3 levels

### Students
- Create new student and store:
    - Name, Email, Mobile
    - Dances student is learning
        - Steps within each dance they have learnt & whether they are competent in that step yet or not
        - Level of student within each dance (student cannot progress to next level until competent in all steps from previous level)
- View student information
- Update student information

### Lessons
- Create lesson plan to store:
    - Student
    - Date & time of lesson (checks no lesson already scheduled for chosen date/time)
    - Dance styles/steps to be taught in lesson (level 2 & 3 steps can only be added if student is competent in all lower-level steps in chosen style)
- Update lesson to add notes about student progress
- Update student competency in steps taught after completion of lesson
- View individual lesson information
- View list of upcoming lessons scheduled

## Implementation Plan

Develop an implementation plan which:
- outlines how each feature will be implemented and a checklist of tasks for each feature
- prioritise the implementation of different features, or checklist items within a feature
- provide a deadline, duration or other time indicator for each feature or checklist/checklist-item

Utilise a suitable project management platform to track this implementation plan.

Provide screenshots/images and/or a reference to an accessible project management platform used to track this implementation plan. 

> Your checklists for each feature should have at least 5 items.

-------------------------
The implementation plan for this project was created using [Trello](https://trello.com/) and can be access via the following link:

INSERT LINK TO BOARD - check access

https://trello.com/b/bFwCFIW8/terminal-app-dancing-diary

Initial stages:

![initial planning - Sunday](docs/trello1-sun.png)

## Installation & Manual

Design help documentation which includes a set of instructions which accurately describe how to use and install the application.

You must include:
- steps to install the application
- any dependencies required by the application to operate
- any system/hardware requirements
- how to use any command line arguments made for the application

### Dependendcies

Mention all imported packages and modules

### Installation Instructions

### Application Manual

INCLUDE LINK TO MANUAL CREATED BY PYDOCS

## References

Provide full attribution to referenced sources (where applicable).

PEP8

numpy
